---
layout: post
title: 100 Up Challenge
date: 2014-08-26
category: challenges
---

I am amazed at the power of the internet - how one piece of information leads to another and enriches your knowledge about a specific topic. Great!. Thanks to the Internet. Today, I stumbled across an old, forgotten exercise that could improve your running. This is not a new exercise for us. We all would have done it at some point in our school life, during the drills, NCC parades, or regular physical exercises in the school. Just that, now this exercise has a name and challenges associated with it.  

### The Exercise

If a picture is worth a thousand words, what about a video? I found this video on YouTube, which clearly shows the Minor and Major variations of the 100-Up exercise. You can start with "100-Up Minor". When you can comfortably do 100 reps (50 reps on each leg), please promote yourselves to "100-Up Major". Please do this exercise daily (any time of the day) until you are comfortable with 100 reps (50 reps in each leg) in "100-Up Major".

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/by-rbM101XE?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### The Challenge

The Challenge is simple and more about the self-experimentation of the 100-Up exercise. 

1. **Write down your last run's time.** - You can very well document every aspect of that last run. How did that run feel? Did you feel comfortable or exhausted? Did your leg/feet ache? Did you strike on the heel/middle/forefeet? How were your stride and cadence? How did you feel the next day? Document every possible aspect of it.  
2. **Learn and practice George's 100-Up exercise for 30 days.** - To get effective results, count the day when you can do "100-Up Major" 100 times, as Day 1. 
3. **Run the same distance as in step 1.** - How did this run feel?. Was it more comfortable? Did you become faster/slower? Did anything change at all? 
4. **Report the results in the comments section.** - This would help other future readers in taking up this challenge and perfecting their form.  

Are you ready for this challenge?  
