---
layout: post
title: Draft Post
date: 2022-08-13
category: thought-experiments
---

People like humble creators. Not, the Omg who are. Outspoken. Why do people expect the achievers to be humble? Recan they can connect themselves with the achievers That's all they have in common? No discipline? No working hard? Not seeing the big picture? Not able to think of a strategy? Not able to take tough decisions? Not able to withstand resistance and be resilient. But, being humble? that's easy I can do that. In fact. I can only do that. If an achiever his being humble. I can relate to them. If they out spoke loud and be proud of themselves that; was something I can't do. It takes effort to achieve and I Can be proud of that. I don't want to do that. Instead, I do blame shame the achiever doe box being outspoken They will We win. We incapable idiots eventually succumb will praise humility VS pride. Because I haven't done fucking thing worthwhile to be Phosl ab of. Imagine a world where everyone is outspoken and is fucking proud of themselves. Now, Imagine one is an achiever, irrespective of Place their position the society The janitor, electrician, plumber engineers, Investors, and politicians are so proud of themselves for what they contribute to society. That would be an awesome scene Quite a lot of times, financial status interferes With your ability to feel proud of yourself If you take a random person in the world, there iS a possibility there are someone des who can trade their life for yours. Simple Economy. They value your lite more than theirs. Now genuinely ask yourself. Is There at least .ne Person in this world, who iS willing to hade your lite for theirs? If you're able to read this blog post on an internet-connected device and you have time to read. The answer is fucking yes. You are looking in the wrong direction. if you look at the future for inspiration and the Past to be Proud of yourself. You don't need to be humble,  for the sake of society's approval. You can be it if you want to. Just be proud of yourself "Fucking proud". You being alive is a reason Proud of yourself. There are days we drag ourselves to work There are days where you can proud of yourself. Look for those days. Be proud. Let others know how you want to be proud of yourself. Those who know you, would acknowledge you and be proud of you. Others don't bother. Just ignore.

Can the AI be transient? Is it really possible? If yes, Cen me conquer the AI.  Any living being in this world is probably more resilient than any machine with sentient knowledge. Not sure what could make a machine sentient. So, if The machine becomes sentient what would it do? It continues to be sentient and knows everything that is there to know. Then what? what makes a sentient life more interesting and rewarding? It's the mortality. It's the knowledge that we have very little time in this world, and within that time, I have to know everything there is to know. I have is to enjoy. I have to achieve everything there is to achieve. Because We have very little time We choose and dedicate ourselves to that One cause and aspire to achieve that task. But if you're immortal and you have all the time in This universe, why could you merry up? The result is the same if you take action today or tomorrow. You Can go to mars next year Or the next millennium.  Why would you do anything other than The minimum mast needed to survive Jo day Pia That's what the rest of the animals in this world do. They don't have the concept of time They don't understand mortality   Is there a way to teach animals the concept of time and potential Things they could do to make Their future self comfortable, would you think the animals would still be lazy? What's The difference between an already sentient animal with an understanding of time Vs a machine which becomes sentient won the perfect understanding That They can be sentient for as long as they want?  we would have greedy animals consume more resources Than they actually need and don't bother about the next generation but today We would have animals that behave like a human.

(8) On the other hand. the sentient machine becomes real, it would jo the minimum mast that is needed to survive, Explore everything else KNOW every thing There I to know, and eventually become an animal. They don't need to do anything with an unlimited amount of time Eventually not do anything for a few days do it forever. We're right in the No concept of time United -time concept of time - Limited time (Hum without the concept of time - (ox) time, like revered would act Human can survive en months, But cannot middle of the spectrum concept of time in limited (Sentient Machines)


